                         XLOAD


XLOAD is a widget based utility for the interactive
manipulation of color tables.  It may be used with any
IDL X Window application, regardless of whether or not
the application uses widgets.

The color table maps the data values written to the
screen to different colors and intensities.  Its
operation is similar to that of a photographic wedge.
The slope and position of the wedge are manipulated to
best display a particular dataset.

The major controls are:

Stretch Bottom and Stretch Top Sliders:

    These sliders control the "contrast" of the color
    tables, and are expressed in percentages of full
    intensity.  The color table wedge is "stretched" so
    that values equal to or less than "Stretch Bottom"
    are set to the lowest color table entry, which is
    usually black.  Values equal to or greater than
    "Stretch Top" are set to the last entry in the
    color table, usually white or some other bright
    color.  Values between the bottom and top are
    linearly scaled to the color table.

    Making "Stretch Bottom" more than "Stretch Top"
    inverts the color table.

Gamma Correction Slider:

    This slider can be used to compensate for the
    characteristics of your monitor.  Values larger
    than 1.0 have a steeper contrast curve at the top
    end of the ramp, while values less than 1.0 have a
    steeper contrast curve at the bottom end of the
    ramp.  A value of 1.0 results in a linear ramp.

Pre-defined Color Table Buttons:

    Pressing one of these buttons loads the selected
    pre-defined color table.  The settings of the other
    controls are not affected.

Load Velocity Table Button:

    Loads a special color table for velocity images, in
    which negative values are displayed in red (for
    redshift) and positive values are displayed in blue
    (for blueshift).  Velocities near zero are
    displayed in grey.

    To use this color table, the image must be scaled
    appropriately, using either EXPTV or PUT with the
    /VELOCITY argument, or the special FORM_VEL
    function call.  Quantitities other than velocity
    which have both positive and negative values, such
    as magnetic field strength, could also be displayed
    in this manner.

    When using the velocity table, the actions of the
    "Stretch Top" and "Gamma Correction" sliders are
    modified to be symmetrical about the center of the
    table, corresponding to zero velocity.  The
    "Stretch Bottom" slider is inactivated, and any
    value it has is ignored.

Split/Rejoin Color Tables:

    Splitting the color table allows the user to
    manipulate two separate color tables, one in the
    upper half of the true color table, and the other
    in the lower half.  The lower half can be a
    velocity color table.

Options:

    Pressing the "Options" button brings up a pull-down
    menu that allows the user to change some of the
    parameters associated with XLOAD.

    When the color tables are split, then each color
    table has its own "Options" button.  Some options
    will be duplicated on each menu, and some options
    will only appear on the left or right "Options"
    menu.

    The various options are:

    Lock Sliders:

        Connects the "Stretch Bottom" and "Stretch Top"
        sliders making their difference constant.  With
        the sliders locked, movement of a slider causes
        the other slider to track keeping the width of
        the wedge constant, while moving it across the
        range of data values.

        The width of the wedge is fixed when this
        button is depressed.

    Unlock Sliders:

        Disconnects the sliders, restoring normal
        operation.

    Chop Top:

        Sets values larger than "Stretch Top" to color
        index 0, rather than the largest color index.

    Clip Top:

        Sets values larger than "Stretch Top" to the
        largest color index.  This is the default.

    Gamma Intensity:

        Changes the behavior of the "Gamma Correction"
        slider so that the intensity of a particular
        color index changes, but the color stays the
        same.

        If the color tables are split, and "Gamma
        Intensity" is set, then only the left "Gamma
        Correction" slider is active, and the other is
        ignored.

    Gamma Shift:

        Changes the behavior of the "Gamma Correction"
        slider so that colors in the color table are
        shifted from one color index to another.  This
        is the default.

    Recenter Gamma Slider

	Returns the gamma slider to the center of its
	range.

    Set Velocity:

        Treats the current color table as a velocity
        table, as described above.

    Unset Velocity:

        Treats the current color table as a intensity
        table.  This is the default.

    Reverse Table:

        Reverses the table so that what was the top
        color is now the bottom color, etc.  Can also
        be applied to velocity color tables.

    Restore Original Table:

        Restores the table that was active when XLOAD
        was first called.

Velocity Options:

    These options modify the way the velocity color
    table is displayed.

    Blue:

        Positive velocities are displayed in the color
        blue.  This is the default.

    Light Blue:

        Positive velocities are displayed in a lighter
        shade of blue than the default.

    Green:

        Positive velocities are displayed in green.

    Turquoise:

        Positive velocities are displayed in turquoise.
